# W1 - Make me an interactive map

## DESCRIPTION

1. __Answer:__ Describe a problem or question in your field for which spatial analysis could be applicable.  
2. __Answer:__ List 5 data layers that you think are necessary to answer your question/solve your problem. Find on the internet github.and then describe examples of two or three of your listed layers.  
3. __Code:__ Your colleague has found some ruins during a hike in the Blue Mountains and recorded the coordinates of structures on her phone(RCFeature.csv). She would like to map her points but has no computer or mapping skills. Can you make a map that she can work with using only a browser? She needs an interactive map that she can download to her computer and use straightaway.    
    - Create a standalone .html map in Leaflet showing at least basic topography and relief, and load in the table of points. Make sure she can see the FeatureID, FeatureType and Description attributes when she hovers over the point markers.   
    - Consider adding elements such as minimap() and measure() for easier map interaction  
    - Explore differentiating the markers (e.g. by size using Accuracy field)  
    - Explore the option of clustering markers with addMarkers(clusterOptions = markerClusterOptions()). Do you recommend marker clustering here?    
    - Challenge (Optional): if Leaflet is all peanuts, or you wish to practice more, adapt this popcircle in Leaflet script to interactively map the countries with the highest proportion of CO2 consumption per person (best calculated in tons per 1000 people, note the pop_est in the ctry object or SP.POP.TOTL indicator with wb_data()).  

## ANSWERS
1. Within the field of cognitive science, spatial analysis can be used to analyse results from experiments using brain imaging techniques such as fMRI. It can be used to investigate the activity of different areas in the brain during a task, e.g. which areas/networks of neurons in the brain that are involved in perception of auditory speech stimuli.   
2. From an fMRI scan you get a ‘picture’ of the surface area of the brain of the person being scanned (in x, y, z-dimensions). This will be the first necessary layer for the analysis. Furthermore, you get information on the activity of different areas of the brain during the task - as measured by blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) response estimates between regions. Mapping this layer ontop of the previous layer would be essential for the analysis. Depending on your question, different other layers can be added. For example, one could imagine adding a layer of theoretical division lines between different areas of the brain, e.g. auditory cortex, and a theoretical layer of the connectivity and pathways of neurons within/between areas. Such layers can for example be derived from brain atlases such as [this one](http://www.thehumanbrain.info/head_brain/hn_horizontal_atlas/horizontal.html) and [this one](http://www.thehumanbrain.info/brain/bn_brain_atlas/brain.html). Though interesting, a difficulty exists in mapping theoretical layers on actual fMRI-scans of an individual's brain. In order to combine the layers, one would need to normalize them and ensure that all layers are in the same spatial resolution, dimensions (x,y,x) and scale. Programs such as [SPM](https://www.fil.ion.ucl.ac.uk/spm/) exixts for doing so. 
3. The .html map can be found [here](https://github.com/frillecode/CDS-spring-2021-spatial/blob/main/W1/blue_mountain.html) along with the [script](https://github.com/frillecode/CDS-spring-2021-spatial/blob/main/W1/W1_assignment.R) for creating it. Even when zooming in as much as possible on the map, the markers are so close together that they cover each other and are difficult to differentiate. Adding marker clustering solves this, and I would recommend doing it in this situation. 
